I was born on the 11th of the 1st 1930 in Welshpool and I lived in Welshpool until I
went into the RAF at 20 years of age.
I came out of the Air Force in 1952 and I bought my old ironmonger shop down Bridge
Street and we came to move into the big house that was part of the business.
My father always used to come to Lambullin on a Thursday which was market day in Lambullin.
He had some very good friends at that time and these were on singing together.
My father was a real singer, he followed anywhere for a singing and spent the afternoon there
with the master of the dolly.
He was a big singer and they'd go everywhere, they had a choir in Lambullin.
Actually he'd have some of the inmates of the dolly in the choir and my father would
go and pick them up and help to take them to wherever they went.
I mean little villages and singing around the place but it kept the inmates, I don't
like that word.
Well they kept them happy, they went out for a little bit of an evening out and a cup of
tea singing at the different villages and they got on well together.
There were some young people there as well, people that were homeless because circumstances
made it that way, nothing else.
And then there was some of the tramps they used to call him in my young day, I remember
one George the Tramp we called him and he used to do the garden for us when we were
living down Bridge Street and he did it for a good many years and I think all he used
to come for was to come for a meal that's what he said because he used to come in his
dinner ready and I go to be a little loved if he'd sit in the household, it's raining
today, he'd say I can't go out.
So he'd sit there all day with us.
And then at night he went back to the dolly?
At night he'd probably have to have somebody take him down in the car or something or he
could slip away and have a pint.
Can you remember the name of the person who came after?
Davies his name was.
William Thomas Davies?
He had a son Ryan he was Ryan and they were on the telly call and they were both beautiful
singers.
I can see him standing on the street in Lanluttenia now, he's standing outside where the spa
used to be.
He'd be standing on the corner and he would always dress the part of an actor or something
like that.
He'd have one of these trench coats, a silver hat, a cigarette in his hand and he used to
talk to him for ages.
Before long they'd have a gang around and they'd be all singing and before you could
say anything half the Count Valley or they'd be coming out and joining the choir outside.
It was great days in those days, Lanluttenia was a great place to live.
So that would be sort of late 50s?
Late 50s, early 60s.
It sounds from what you're saying the town had a good relationship with the Dollies.
There wasn't any bad relationship, I think there were a lot of snooty people living in
Lanluttenia.
They didn't like to be associated with the Dollies.
Well that's what they called it in Lanluttenia, the workhouses and of course that didn't
go down with them.
So you'd say there were mixed attitudes then?
Mixed attitudes yes.
It had quite a bit to do with the Dollies because you know when they'd garden stuff,
the seeds and things we used to deliver it down and anything they wanted from the Iron
Wungry that we used to sell we used to go down there, go in and have a cup of tea with
them.
We used to have a lot of laughs with them down there.
Really they were some real comedians.
Do you remember it as being full?
Oh yes, yes, a lot of people.
On the whole I think they all got on pretty well together.
They had a good home there.
It was a bit rough and ready but they had good food.
They were restricted to a few hours and things that they did, some of them didn't like.
They liked to be able to walk up to the pub at night going out fighting and perhaps they'd
forget to come back.
They got on very well with people indeed.
In the forest, the forest church mouses we used to say, you could always get on and this
is both nicely to them and treated them as it.
There used to be one old chap.
I think he stopped in the Dollies in the winter but he used to sleep under the stars through
the summer.
He could tell you some tales he could tell you but it was nearly all in Welsh.
He used to say the most beautiful poetry so I'm told.
All self-taught.
They say if you could understand it, something they did was, but there was a little to his
voice as well like he.
And he was a chap of about six foot four.
A big chap and he built like a tank.